1 What is a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), and why is it used for image processing?
ans 
A Convolutional Neural Network is also a Neural Network in deeplearning that 
apply on various task releted images like image processing , classification ,
 object-detection etc.
cnn used for only image data because to finding complexity of an image convolution 
operation is needed and for auto matation also Neural network needed so 
cnn is only used on image processing. 


2 What are the key components of a CNN architecture?
ans
components of cnn is 
    i - Convolution layer
    ii - pooling layer 
    iii - flatten layer
    iv - fully conected nural network layer 

3 What is the role of the convolutional layer in CNNs?
ans
convolution layer performs convolution operation in that a filter(kernel size (n X n))
moves on image(input data) according to stride(no of step jump) is given , and generate
feature map of given image data.
and by backpropagation we can update the value of kernel(initaly random weight's)

4 What is a filter (kernel) in CNNs ?
ans
filter is a n by n matrix that have some random weight.It find out  the 
complex structure that can be inside the image just by dot product over the input 
image data.And as out put it generate the feature map.


5 What is pooling in CNNs, and why is it important?
ans
pooling is a operation in cnn that apply on generated feature map that pooling 
layer pool the weight from higher dimentiion to lower dimention.
pooling is important because every feature map may contain important value 
and by pooling it can added into new feature map.

6 What are the common types of pooling used in CNNs ?
ans 
    i - MaxPooling
    ii - AvgPooling
    iii - GlobalMaxPooling
7 How does the backpropagation algorithm work in CNNs?
ans 
In backpropagation the weight and bias are update .But in CNN also the kernel 
weight are update.


8 What is the role of activation functions in CNNs?
ans
Activation functions that apply on the output of layer and it gives the nonlinearity 
to the functions.

9 What is the concept of receptive fields in CNNs ?
ans
The receptive field is defined by the filter size of a layer within a convolution layer
.The receptive field is also an indication of the extend of the scope of input data
a nuron unit within a layer can be exposed to.

10 Explain the concept of tensor space in CNN ?
ans
tensor are the multidimentional array structure that store numerical value.
Basicaly an image consist of n layer (generaly 3 layers rgb).
each layer or feature contain the pixel value of that format.

11 What is LeNet-5, and how does it contribute to the development of CNNs ?
ans
LeNet-5 is a Convolutional Nural Network architecture that contain 7 layer .
It is used for handwritten character recognization .

12 What is AlexNet, and why was it a breakthrough in deep learning ?
ans
AlexNet also a Convolutional Nural Network architecture that contain 8 layers.
AlexNet used for predicting classification problem.(whether it is a cat or dog , pencil)
it has 1000 classes.


13 What is VGGNet, and how does it differ from AlexNet?
ans
VGGNet also a Convolutional Nural Network architecture.
VGGNet used for transfor learning .



14 What is GoogLeNet, and what is its main innovation?
ans
GoogLeNet also a Convolutional Nural Network architecture that contain 22 deep layers.
it also have 1000 classes.
GoogLeNet is used for image classification , detection .
15 What is ResNet, and what problem does it solve?
ans
ResNet is a CNN architecture .
it quickly train ,very deep nural network models and by linking across layers
 can prevent the gradient dissapprence problem.


17 What are the main steps involved in training a CNN from scratch?
stpe are
    1- collection of image 
    2 - lableling the image 
    3 - set the proper path of images
    4 - define architecture of cnn
    5 - chose the model that used (transfor learning)
    6 - set compilation 
    7 - if accuracy not hold then hyper tune it